README.md, before:

# geant4-exploration

A repository documenting everything I'm doing to explore Geant4, starting from scratch. 

More detailed documentation on some specific things like **installation** and **creating a new project** can be found in the **`documentation/` directory**

Some specific documentation relating to individual projects is also found in the relevant directories.


### Prerequisites
You should be comfortable with C++ programming.

## Useful Resources

### Geant4 Documentation
https://geant4.web.cern.ch/docs/getting-started
https://geant4.web.cern.ch/docs/


### Physics Matters (YouTube)
This channel has a few tutorial playlists related to Geant4:

1. Newer Playlist on Geant4: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGUYAOwtyI4U8cRL6ig0p3c7&si=SLTs0pE4KMOXyWs2
2. Older Playlist on Geant4: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGWgzNYOV0SKen9vqg4KXeVL&si=U_FlTphOSG9_8Wib
3. Playist on CERN ROOT: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGWLdDO4ZDaB0kLrO3maeYAe&si=SoR7dxCyUsJHPLos

### Obsidian Canvas on Geant4
https://github.com/ConnerGrice/Geant4-Obsidian-Learning-Resource

These are notes that somebody compiled about Geant4. To be viewed using Obsidian canvas. Not necessary to read this resource, but it might help to understand the class structure if you feel lost. Note that you should probably install Obsidian if you want to use this resource.

Commit message:

Finished the radioactive decay example and improved documentation a bit.

README.md, after:

# geant4-exploration

A repository documenting everything I'm doing to explore Geant4, starting from scratch. 

More detailed documentation on some specific things like **installation** and **creating a new project** can be found in the **`documentation/` directory**

Some specific documentation relating to individual projects is also found in the relevant directories.


### Prerequisites
You should be comfortable with C++ programming.


## Examples with Code
I've run the 2 major examples, located in the `projects/` directory. Each has a short README.md in its directory. Both are from the Physics Matters YouTube channel.

### 1. projects/basicsim
Basic simulation of Cherenkov radiation and detectors.

### 2. projects/radioactive-decay
Simulation of radioactive decay of Flourine-18, and a scintillator. Writes output to a ROOT file, including a histogram.

## Useful Resources

### Geant4 Documentation
https://geant4.web.cern.ch/docs/getting-started
https://geant4.web.cern.ch/docs/


### Physics Matters (YouTube)
This channel has a few tutorial playlists related to Geant4:

1. Newer Playlist on Geant4: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGUYAOwtyI4U8cRL6ig0p3c7&si=SLTs0pE4KMOXyWs2
2. Older Playlist on Geant4: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGWgzNYOV0SKen9vqg4KXeVL&si=U_FlTphOSG9_8Wib
3. Playist on CERN ROOT: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLLybgCU6QCGWLdDO4ZDaB0kLrO3maeYAe&si=SoR7dxCyUsJHPLos

### Obsidian Canvas on Geant4
https://github.com/ConnerGrice/Geant4-Obsidian-Learning-Resource

These are notes that somebody compiled about Geant4. To be viewed using Obsidian canvas. Not necessary to read this resource, but it might help to understand the class structure if you feel lost. Note that you should probably install Obsidian if you want to use this resource.
